### Classes

In this section we're going to see how we can abstract over objects using *classes*. **Classes are a template for constructing objects**. Given a class we can make many objects that have the same type & share common properties.

### Defining a class.

A class is a template for creating objects that have similar methods & fields. In scala, a class also defines a type, and objects created from a class all share the same type.

Here is a declaration for a simple `Person` class:
```
class Person {
    val firstName = "Noel"
    val secondName = "Welsh"
    
    def name = firstName + " " + secondName
}
```

Scala defines the class declaration at run-time.

Like an object declaration, a class declaration binds a name (in this case `Person`) and is not an expression. However, unlike an object name, we cannot use a class name in an expression. A class is not a value, and there is a different *namespace* in which classes live.

If we try to run `Person` in the console as we would an object name, we would get an error message.

**However**, we can create a new `Person` object by using the `new` operator...

```
val noel = new Person
// noel: Person = Person@2fa983ad
```
and now we can call noel to get first + second names...
```
noel.firstName
// res1: String = Noel
```
This creates a new object, named `noel` with class `Person` that we can then call, we can continue to create different object names in the same way as many times as we want (all with the same first + second names however).

We can then write a method that takes any object of class `Person` as a parameter...
```
object alien {
    def greet(p: Person) =
    "Greetings, " + p.firstname + " " + p.lastname
}
```
Then if we try to run...
```
alien.greet(noel)
// res2: String = Greetings, Noel Welsh
```

### Contructors.

As mentioned above, our `Person` class isn't very useful. We can create as many objects as we want but they all have the same first & second names.

The solution is provide a *constructor*, which allows us to pass parameters to new objects as we create them.
e.g.
```
class Person(first: String, second: String) {
    val firstName = first
    val secondName = second
    def name = firstName + " " + secondName
}
```
Now we can pass input parameters to our object to create new objects as before.
```
val dan = new Person("Dan", "Taylor")
// dan: Person = Person@3d070d1f

dan.name
// res3: String = Dan Taylor
```

The constructor paramaeters `first` and `second` can only be used within the body of the class. We must declare a field or method using `val` or `def` to access data from outside the object.

Scala also provides the ability to prefix constructor parameters in the following way...
```
class Person(val firstName: String, val secondName: String) {
    def name = firstName + " " + secondName
}
```

The syntax for declaring a class is as follows:
```
class Name(val parameter: Type, ... ) {
    declarationOrExpression
}
```

**NOTE**: Parameter names should be specified by field keywords where possible, and default parameter names can also be specified.
e.g.
```
class greet(firstName: String = "Some", secondName: String = "Body") {
    "Greetings, " firstname + " " + secondName + "!"
}

greet("Busy")
// res4: String = Greetings, Busy Body!
```