# Case Classes.

*Case classes* are an exceptionally useful shorthand for defining a class, a companion object and sensible defaults all in one go.

Case classes are created by preparing a class definition with the-word `case`.
```
case class Person(firstName: String, lastName: String) {
    def name = firstName + " " + lastName
}
```
Whenever we declare a case class, scala automatically generates a class & a companion object. Furthermore, both the class and companion are pre-populated with some features.

### Features of a case class.

* A field for each constructor argument - we don't need to write `val` in our constructor definition.

```
dave.firstName
// res0: String = Dave
```

* A default `toString` method that prints a sensible constructor-like representation of the class (no more @ signs or cryptic number identifiers).
```
dave
// res1: Person = Person(Dave, Gurnell)
```

* *Sensible equals & hashCode methods* that operate on the field values in the object.

This makes it extremely easy to use case classes with things like `Lists`, `Sets` & `Maps`. It also means that we can compare objects on the basis of their contents rather than their reference identity.
```
new Person("Noel", "Welsh").equals(new Person("Noel", "welsh"))
// res3: Boolean = true

new Person("Noel", "Welsh") == new Person("Noel", "Welsh")
// res4: Booleab = true
```

* A *copy method* that creates a new object with the same as the current one.
```
dave.copy()
// res5: Person = Person(Dave,Gurnell)

dave.copy(secondName = "Gurnell2")
// res6: Person = Person(Dave, Gurnell2)
```

* Case classes implement two traits:`java.io.Serializable` & `scala.Product`. The latter provides methods for inspecting the number of fields and the name of the case class.

The syntax to declare a case class is the following:
```
case class Name(parameter: type, ...) {
    declarationOrExpression ...
}
```

### Case Objects.

A final note. If you find yourself defining a case class with no constructor arguments you can instead a define a case object.
```
case object Citizen {
    def firstName = "John"
    def lastName = "Doe"
    def name = firstName + " " + lastName
}
```