# Generics.

Generic types allow us to *abstract over types*. These are useful for all sorts of data structures, but most commonly encountered in collections.

### Box Example.

We'll start using an example of a box that stores a single value. We don't care what type is stored in the box, but we want to make sure we preserve the type when we get the value out of the box. To do this we use the **generic** type.

```
final case class Box[A](value: A)

Box(2)
// res0: Box[Int] = Box(2)

res0.value
// res1: Int = 2

Box("hi") // if we omit the type parameter, scala will infer it's value
// res2: Box[String] = Box(hi)

res2.value
// res3: String = hi
```

The syntax [A] is called a *type parameter*. We can also add parameters to methods, which limits the scope of the parameter to the method declaration and body:

```
def generic[A](in: A): A = in

generic[String]("foo")
// res4: String = foo

generic(1) // again, if we omit the type parameter, scala will infer it
// res5: Int = 1
```

Type parameters work in a way analogous to method parameters. When we call a method we bind the method's parameter names to the values given in the method call. e.g. when we call `generic(1)`, the name `in` is bound to the value 1 within the body of `generic`.

When we call a method or construct a class with a type parameter, the type parameter is bound to the concrete type within the method or class body. So when we call `generic(1)` the type parameter A is bound to `Int` in the body of `generic`.

### Type Parameter Syntax.

Generic types can be declared in a class or trait declaration, in which case they are visible throughout the rest of the declaration.
```
case class Name[A](...){ ... }
trait Name[A]{ ... }
```

Alternatively, they may be declared in a method declaration, in which case they are only visible within the method.
```
def Name[A](...){ ... }
```

In a previous section we introduced the following example:
```
sealed trait Calculation
final case class Success(result: Double) extends Calculation
final case class Failure(reason: String) extends Calculation
```

Let's generalise this so that our result is not restricted to a `Double` but can be some generic type (also changing the name to `Result`).

```
sealed trait Result[A]
final case class Success[A](result: A) extends Result[A]
final case class Failure[A](reason: String) extends Result[A]
```

Notice that both `Success` & `Failure` introduce a type parameter A which is passed to `Result` when it is extended. In a later section we'll introduce *variance*, giving us a cleaner way to implement this.

**Definition:**

If A of type T is a B or C:
```
sealed trait A[T]
final case class B[T]() extends A[T]
final case class C[T]() extends A[T]
```