# Objects.

In the previous section learnt that *all values are objects*.

### Objects.

An object is a grouping of data & operations on that data. i.e. 2 in an object of type Int, + - * / are all operations that we can apply to that object. \
Special terminology for the data & operations of an object. The operations are known as *methods*, and data is stored in *fields*.

### Method calls.

We interact with objects by *calling* methods or expressions. `toUpperCase()` was an example of a method that we called previously. \
Some methods or expressions accept *parameters* or *arguments*, controlling how the method works. i.e. `take(2)` takes the first 2 characters of a string...
```
"abcde".take(2)
// res0: String = ab
```

A method call is an expression, and thus evaluates the object, meaning we can chain methods together...
```
"hello".toUpperCase().toLowerCase()
// res1: String = hello
```

### Operators

Because every value in scala in an object we can call methods on primitive types such as `Int` & `Boolean` (unlike Java).

Scala methods can have *symbolic* as well as *numerical* names, i.e. we've already seen `toUpperCase()` is a symbolic method, + - * / are all numerical methods.

### Infix operator notation.

Any scala expression written a . b ( c ) can also be written as a b c. Here, a, b & c denote methods we can call. \
e.g. a b c d e is also equivalent to a . b ( c ) . d ( e ), not a . b (c , d , e).

### Literal objects.

Scala also has *literal* objects, these being a literal expression that represents a fixed value. Below are a few examples:
```
42
// res2: Int = 42

42.0
// res3: Double = 42.0

true
// res4: Boolean = true

null
// res5: Null = null
```

### Characters & Strings

Characters or `Chars` are 16-bit Unicode values written as a single character enclosed in single quotes. Strings are the exact same as defined above.

### Unit

Unit, denoted (), is scala's equivalent of void. Unit is the result of expressions that evaluate to no value, for example if we use `println()` the result is evaluated to Unit type.  
*Note*: Unit will not be returned in the console.

```
println("Hello World!")
// Hello World!

:type println("Hello World!")
// Unit
```