# Traits

In this chapter we explore *abstraction over classes*, allowing us to write code that works with objects of different classes. We achieve this with a mechanism called *traits*.

**Traits are templates for creating classes**, in the same way that classes are templates for creating objects. Traits allow us to express that two or more classes can be considered the same, and thus implement the same operations.

Let's use an example:

Imagine we're modelling visitors to a website. There are two types of visitor, those whom have registered before, and those whom are anonymous. Let's begin by modelling these with classes:
```
import java.util.Date

case class Anonymous(id: String, createdAt: Date = new Date())

case class User(id: String, email: String, createdAt: Date = new Date())
```
Implying that the only difference between the two classes of customer is that we know the email address of registered customers.

Thus, there are two fields, "id" & "createdAt" which belong to both classes, we can assign these to a `trait`.
```
import java.util.Date

trait Visitor {
    def id: String  // unique id assigned to each user
    def createdAt : Date // date this user first visited the site
    
    // method to determind how long the visitor has been around
    def age: Long = new Date().getTime - createdAt.getTime
}

case class Anonymous(id: String, createdAt: Date = new Date()) extends Visitor

case class User(id: String, email: String, createdAt: Date = new Date()) extends Visitor
```
There are two key changes:
* We defined the `trait` visitor.
* We declared `Anonymous` & `User` subtypes of the `Visitor` trait by using the keyword `extends`.

The syntax to declare a `trait` is as follows:
```
trait traitName {
    declarationOrExpression
}
```
To declare that a class is a subtype of a trait:
```
case class name(...) extends traitName {
    ...
}
```

### Traits compared to classes.

Traits differ to classes in a couple of ways:
* *A trait cannot have a constructor* - we cannot create objects directly from a trait. Instead we use the trait to create a class, and then create objects from that class, all under the trait "master" type.
* Traits can define abstract methods that have names and type signatures but no implementation.

Let's return to the `Visitor` trait to further explore abstract definitions. \
Here, we have a trait that prescribes two abstract methods. That is, methods that must be implemented by extending classes. In this examples, `id` & `createdAt` are examples of these abstract definitions, `age` however, is a concrete method that is defined by these abstract methods.

It is good practice to never define `vals` in a trait but to use a `def` instead. 