# Structural Recursion.

In this section we'll see a pattern for using algebraic data types, know as *structural recursion*. We'll see two variants of this pattern, one using *polymorphism* and the other using *pattern matching*.

Structural recursion is the precise opposite of the process of building an algebraic data type. If A has a B and C (product type), then to construct an A we must have a B & C. Structural recursion states that if we have an A as defined before, we must break it into its constituent B and C that we then combine in some way to get closer to our final answer.

Polymorphism is a typical object-orientated technique, whilst pattern matching is a typical functional technique.

### Structural Recursion using Polymorphism.

If we define a method in a trait, and have different implementations in classes extending that trait, when we call that method the implementation on the actual conrete stance will be used.

Here's a basic example:
```
sealed trait A {
    def foo: String
}
final case class B() extends A {
    def foo: String =
    "It's B!"
}
final case class C() extends A {
    def foo: String =
    "It's C"
} 
```
We declare a value with type A, but we see the concrete implementation on B or C is used.
```
anA: A = B()
// anA: A = B()

anA.foo
// res0: String = It's B!

val anA: A = C()
// anA: A = C()

anA.foo
// res1: String = It's C!
```
We can define an implementation in a trait, and change the implementation in an extending class using the override keyword.
```
sealed trait A {
    def foo: String =
    "It's A!"
}
final case class B() extends A {
    override def foo: String =
    "It's B!"
}
final case class C() extends A {
    override def foo: String =
    "It's C!"
}
```
The behaviour is as before, the implementation on the concrete class is selected.
```
val anA: A = B()
// anA: A = B()

anA.foo
// res2: String = It's B!
```

### The Product Type Polymorphism Pattern.

If A has a b (with type B) and a c (with type C), and we want to write a method f returning an F, we simply write the method in the usual way:
```
case class A(b: B, c: C) {
    def f: F = ...
}
```

### The Sum Type Polymorphism Pattern.

If A is a B or C and we want to write a method f returning an F, define f as an abstract method on A and provide concrete implementations in subtypes B & C.
```
sealed trait A {
    def f: F
}
final case class B() extends A {
    def f: F = ...
}
final case class C() extends A {
    def f: F = ...
}
```