# Choosing the correct pattern.

We have three of implementing structural recursion:

1). Polymorphism \
2). Pattern matching in the base trait. \
3). Pattern matching in an external object.

The first two methods provide the same result, a method defined on the classes of interest. The most common (or most convenient) is usually pattern matching on the base trait, as it requires the least amount of code duplication.

The general rule is as follows:

If a method only depends on other fields and methods in a class it is a good candidate to be implemented inside the class. If the method depends on other data (i.e. if we need a `Cook` to make dinner) consider implementing it using pattern matching outside of the classes in question (i.e. an object).

### Object-Orientated vs Functional Extensibility.

In classical functional programming style we have no objects, only data without methods & functions. This style of programming makes extensive use of pattern matching.

Classic object orientated style uses polymorphism and allow open extension of classes. In scala terms this means no sealed traits.

With OO style programming we can easily add new data, by extending a trait, but adding a new method requires us to change existing code. With functional style programming we can easily add a new method but adding new data requires us to modify existing code.

In tabular form:

|   | Add new method  | Add new data  |
|---|---|---|
| **OO**  | Change existing code  | Existing code unchanged  |
| **FP**  | Existing code unchanged  | Change existing code  |

Scala offers the flexibility of polymorphism and pattern matching, however we generally preferred sealed traits as it gives us greater guarantees about our codes' semantics, and we can use typeclasses, which we will explore later.