# Recursive Data.

A particular use of algebraic data types that comes up often is defining *recursive data*. This is data defined in terms of itself, and allows us to create data of potentially unbounded size.

We cannot define recursive data like:
```
final case class Broken(broken: Broken)
```
as we could never create an instance of such a type.

To define valid recursive data, we must define a *base case*, which is the case that ends the recursion. Here is a better example:
```
sealed trait IntList
case object End extends IntList
final case class Pair(head: Int, tail: Intlist) extends Intlist
```
Here, `End` is the *base case*. We can construct the list containing 1,2 & 3 as follows:
```
Pair(1, Pair(2, Pair(3, End)))
```
This data structure is known as a singly-linked list. In this example we have four links to our chain. We can also write it out in longer form for a better understanding:
```
val d = End()
val c = Pair(3, d)
val b = Pair(2, c)
val a = Pair(1, b)
```
* a represents the sequence; 1, 2, 3
* b represents the sequence 2, 3
* c represents the sequence 3
* d represents an empty sequence

Using this implementation, we can build lists of arbitrary length by repeatedly taking an existing list and prepending a new element.

### Understanding both the Base & Recursive case.

* For the vase case we should generally return the *identity* for the function we're trying to compute. The identity is an element that doesn't change the result.
* For the recursive case, assume the recursion will return the correct result and work out what you need to add to get the correct answer.

### Tail Recursion.

Scala can apply an optimisation method, called *tail recursion*, to many recursive functions to stop them consuming stack space.

A tail call is a method call where the caller immediately returns the vale. e.g.
```
def method1: Int = 1

def tailCall: Int = method1
```
because `tailCall` immediately returns the result of calling `method1` while...
```
def notATailCall: Int = method1 + 2
```
because `notATailCall` does not immediately return - it adds a number to the result of the call.

Since tail recursion is an important property to maintain, we can use the `@tailrec` annotation to ask the compiler to check that methods we believe are tail recursion really are.

Here we have two versions of `sum` annotated. One is tail recursive and one is not.
```
import scala.annotation.tailrec
```
```
@tailrec
def sum(list: IntList): Int =
    list match {
        case End => 0
        case Pair(hd, tl) => hd + sum(tl)
    }
// <console>:20: error: could not optimize @tailrec annotated method
    sum: it contains a recursive call not in a tail position
//          list match {
//          ^
```
```
@tailrec
def sum(list: IntList, total: Int = 0): Int
    list match {
        case End => total
        case Pair(hd, tl) => sum(tl, total + hd)
    }
sum: (list: IntList, total: Int)Int
```

In scala we tend not to work directly with tail recursive functions as there is a rich collections library the covers the most common case where tail recursion is used.